the first thing I heard that made me say
you know what I want to be a musician
myself was when I heard the Jackson 5 I
was 10 years old and I think Michael
Jackson was probably 10 or 11 years old
himself and to see people who your own
age who were that fantastic it's just
exciting man it just he just makes you
so crazy said man I can do that you know
I already love music and that's when I
began so the first thing I did was I
joined a singing group and then uh you
know I just didn't want to stand there
and sing so I started playing the bass I
wanted a instrument that I could play in
an R&B situation so I started playing
bass guitar I also play the piano my
father's a piano play and I was
imitating him from when I was 2 years
old you know they had pictures of me
with his glasses on and a checkerboard
for my music and I'm playing the piano
you know so although I never took formal
lessons on the pan I've been playing at
a very long time you know I began the
clarinet when I was about 10 years old
and if you learn the clarinet then you
can transition pretty easily to
saxophone and from the bass you can
learn the guitar I knew I had some
friends who were basketball players and
there were so intense about practicing
that the coach at the school would say
look here's a key to the gym you know
whenever you want to practice you you
can get it
Who am I music teacher gave me the key
to the music room anything look whenever
you want to go in there and fool around
I used to love just going around and
exploring the different instruments
people ask me uh what kind of music do
you play and I say I don't know what to
call it you know
the easiest the easiest suggestion is
that a we play funk on the bottom and
jazz on the top but the more detailed
explanation is that the music I play is
basically soul music you know it's R&B
it's funk and it's got a lot of pop
elements but the difference is that we
play it with a jazz spirit so if you're
a funk band you play the music the same
way every night sometimes more energy
sometimes less energy but the notes
never change and for me the notes always
change think about jazz I always loved
was a chance always had a great
connection to pop music the jazzman's
that I always loved was when Sonny
Rollins would play an old Broadway song
or Miles Davis would play an old popular
song Chazz was always very closely
related to pop music the bebop guys
Charlie Parker Dizzy Gillespie most of
their songs were based on old show tunes
you know that everyone knew and
basically what jazz musicians were
saying was we can take this music that
everyone knows and we can show you the
possibilities we can show you how far
that music can be developed and I always
thought that was the most fascinating
thing about Jack if I had to use one
word today I play fusion music because I
take the elements from here I take the
elements from here and I combine them
together
where you come from as a musician is
really everything you know um you know
if you hear somebody speak within two
sentences of them speaking you basically
have a good idea of where they're from
their accent the words they choose you
know and it's the same thing with music
when you heard Miles Davis play you knew
that he was from st. Louis he was from
you know that that culture and when you
hear me play you know I'm from New York
there was funk in the streets there was
salsa music here that was reggae it was
african nails calypso there's everything
going on at the same time and as a
musician in New York you had to be
familiar with all those different styles
I went to California and play and Trump
said man why do you play so angry man
you play like you're mad at somebody I
said really it's just but I realized in
New York when we went to the clubs the
people didn't want to hear jazz so if
you're going to play jazz for the people
you had to play it very aggressively
like you really mean it
to get their attention
Ronnie listen Smith in the 70s he was
like the first like a trip-hop player to
me you know his band played funk music
and he played these kind of atmospheric
keyboards over it and there's a very
very distinct style that we all grew up
with and I actually got to uh do some
records with him it's like my first
stuff I met Marcus Miller when he was 15
going on 16 that his head or turns
around I'm not gonna turn my head around
and we were jamming somewhere in Queens
that's what I function for Jamaica came
from and I said wow does this boy sounds
good
so then have we finished jamming he put
his bass down he said I got a song for
you so I'm looking at this little kid
I'm Sam mmm okay wait
he's sit down at the piano start playing
journey into love doo doo doo doo and
then stop I said oh you have a song for
me don't you
and I took him right into the studio I
think it's on Loveland and all the I
mean the producer all the musicians saw
me bringing this little kid in and all
me they got all upset got a terrible
attitude and a few minutes later now I
can't get to him they all surrounded him
man he can play he sounds good I've been
miles house young musician he catches
him at that stage and he knows what the
future and I remember when miles was
getting rid of higher markers what he
does is he called musicians and he said
well we shaker Marcus so the first thing
I said good you have found your twin so
he said oh you still strange but what I
meant was
Myles is Gemini Marcus is Gemini the two
twins so I said you found your twin and
I said it's gonna work and the rest is
history